# tailwind



## AnimationsDoc

The plugin also adds extended animation utilities that can be used with the styleclass and animateonscroll directives. Enter and Leave In addition to the prebuilt animations, you may also build your own declaratively using the animate-enter and animate-leave along with the opacity, rotate, scale and translate parameters. These animations work perfectly with the AnimateOnScroll directive, visit this directive for various examples. Animations Class Property animate-enter animation-name: enter; --p-enter-opacity: initial; --p-enter-scale: initial; --p-enter-rotate: initial; --p-enter-translate-x: initial; --p-enter-translate-y: initial; animate-leave animation-name: leave; --p-leave-opacity: initial; --p-leave-scale: initial; --p-leave-rotate: initial; --p-leave-translate-x: initial; --p-leave-translate-y: initial; animate-leave fadein 0.15s linear animate-fadein fadein 0.15s linear animate-fadeout fadeout 0.15s linear animate-slidedown slidedown 0.45s ease-in-out animate-slideup slideup 0.45s cubic-bezier(0, 1, 0, 1) animate-scalein scalein 0.15s linear animate-fadeinleft fadeinleft 0.15s linear animate-fadeoutleft fadeoutleft 0.15s linear animate-fadeinright fadeinright 0.15s linear animate-fadeoutright fadeoutright 0.15s linear animate-fadeinup fadeinup 0.15s linear animate-fadeoutup fadeoutup 0.15s linear animate-fadeindown fadeindown 0.15s linear animate-fadeoutup fadeoutup 0.15s linear animate-width width 0.15s linear animate-flip flip 0.15s linear animate-flipup flipup 0.15s linear animate-flipleft fadein 0.15s linear animate-flipright flipright 0.15s linear animate-zoomin zoomin 0.15s linear animate-zoomindown zoomindown 0.15s linear animate-zoominleft zoominleft 0.15s linear animate-zoominright zoominright 0.15s linear animate-zoominup zoominup 0.15s linear Animation Duration Class Property animate-duration-0 animation-duration: 0s animate-duration-75 animation-duration: 75ms animate-duration-100 animation-duration: 100ms animate-duration-200 animation-duration: 200ms animate-duration-300 animation-duration: 300ms animate-duration-400 animation-duration: 400ms animate-duration-500 animation-duration: 500ms animate-duration-700 animation-duration: 700ms animate-duration-1000 animation-duration: 1000ms animate-duration-2000 animation-duration: 2000ms animate-duration-3000 animation-duration: 300ms animate-duration-[value] animation-duration: value Animation Delay Class Property animate-delay-none animation-duration: 0s animate-delay-75 animation-delay: 75ms animate-delay-100 animation-delay: 100ms animate-delay-150 animation-delay: 150ms animate-delay-200 animation-delay: 200ms animate-delay-300 animation-delay: 300ms animate-delay-400 animation-delay: 400ms animate-delay-500 animation-delay: 500ms animate-delay-700 animation-delay: 700ms animate-delay-1000 animation-delay: 1000ms Iteration Count Class Property animate-infinite animation-iteration-count: infinite animate-once animation-iteration-count: 1 animate-twice animation-iteration-count: 2 Direction Class Property animate-normal animation-direction: normal animate-reverse animation-direction: reverse animate-alternate animation-direction: alternate animate-alternate-reverse animation-direction: alternate-reverse Timing Function Class Property animate-ease-linear animation-timing-function: linear animate-ease-in animation-timing-function: cubic-bezier(0.4, 0, 1, 1) animate-ease-out animation-timing-function: cubic-bezier(0, 0, 0.2, 1) animate-ease-in-out animation-timing-function: cubic-bezier(0.4, 0, 0.2, 1) Fill Mode Class Property animate-fill-none animation-fill-mode: normal animate-fill-forwards animation-fill-mode: forwards animate-fill-backwards animation-fill-mode: backwards animate-fill-both animation-fill-mode: both Play State Class Property animate-running animation-play-state: running animate-paused animation-play-state: paused Backface Visibility State Class Property backface-visible backface-visibility: visible backface-hidden backface-visibility: hidden Fade In and Out Values are derived from the Tailwind CSS opacity e.g. fade-in-50 and fade-out-20 . Arbitrary values such as fade-in-[15] are also supported. Class Property fade-in-{value} --p-enter-opacity: {value} fade-out-{value} --p-leave-opacity: {value} Zoom In and Out Values are derived from the Tailwind CSS scale e.g. zoom-in-50 and zoom-out-75 . Arbitrary values such as zoom-in-[0.8] are also supported. Class Property zoom-in-{value} --p-enter-scale: {value} zoom-out-{value} --p-leave-scale: {value} Spin In and Out Values are derived from the Tailwind CSS rotate e.g. spin-in-45 and spin-out-90 . Arbitrary values such as spin-in-[60deg] are also supported. Class Property spin-in-{value} --p-enter-rotate: {value} spin-out-{value} --p-leave-rotate: {value} Slide In and Out Values are derived from the Tailwind CSS translate e.g. slide-in-from-t-50 and slide-out-to-l-8 . Arbitrary values such as slide-in-from-b-[8px] are also supported. Class Property slide-in-from-t-{value} --p-enter-translate-y: -{value} slide-in-from-b-{value} --p-enter-translate-y: {value} slide-in-from-l-{value} --p-enter-translate-x: -{value} slide-in-from-r-{value} --p-enter-translate-x: {value} slide-out-to-t-{value} --p-leave-translate-y: -{value} slide-out-to-b-{value} --p-leave-translate-y: {value} slide-out-to-l-{value} --p-leave-translate-x: -{value} slide-out-to-r-{value} --p-leave-translate-x: {value}

```vue
<Select v-model="animation" :options="animations" placeholder="Select One" class="w-full sm:w-44" />
<div class="py-8 overflow-hidden">
    <div :class="\
```

## Dark Mode

In styled mode, PrimeVue uses the system as the default darkModeSelector in theme configuration. If you have a dark mode switch in your application, ensure that darkModeSelector is aligned with the Tailwind dark variant for seamless integration. Note that, this particular configuration isn't required if you're utilizing the default system color scheme. Suppose that, the darkModeSelector is set as my-app-dark in PrimeVue. Tailwind v4 Add a custom variant for dark with a custom selector. Tailwind v3 Use the plugins option in your Tailwind config file to configure the plugin.

## Extensions

The plugin extends the default configuration with a new set of utilities whose values are derived from the PrimeVue theme in use. All variants and breakpoints are supported e.g. dark:sm:hover:bg-primary . Color Palette Class Property primary-[50-950] Primary color palette. surface-[0-950] Surface color palette. primary Default primary color. primary-contrast Default primary contrast color. primary-emphasis Default primary emphasis color. border-surface Content border color. bg-emphasis Emphasis background e.g. hovered element. bg-highlight Highlight background. bg-highlight-emphasis Highlight background with emphasis. rounded-border Border radius. text-color Text color with emphasis. text-color-emphasis Default primary emphasis color. text-muted-color Secondary text color. text-muted-color-emphasis Secondary text color with emphasis.

## Override

Tailwind utilities may not be able to override the default styling of components due to css specificity, there are two possible solutions; Important and CSS Layer. Important Use the ! as a prefix to enforce the styling. This is not the recommend approach, and should be used as last resort to avoid adding unnecessary style classes to your bundle. Tailwind v4 Tailwind v3 CSS Layer CSS Layer provides control over the css specificity so that Tailwind utilities can safely override components. Tailwind v4 Ensure primevue layer is after theme and base , but before the other Tailwind layers such as utilities . No change in the CSS configuration is required. Tailwind v3 The primevue layer should be between base and utilities. Tailwind v3 does not use native layer so needs to be defined with CSS.

## Overview

Tailwind CSS is a popular CSS framework based on a utility-first design. The core provides flexible CSS classes with predefined CSS rules to build your own UI elements. For example, instead of an opinionated btn class as in Bootstrap, Tailwind offers primitive classes like bg-blue-500 , rounded and p-4 to apply a button. Tailwind is an outstanding CSS library, however it lacks a true comprehensive UI suite when combined with Vue.js, this is where PrimeVue comes in by providing a wide range of highly accessible and feature rich UI component library. The core of PrimeVue does not depend on Tailwind CSS, instead we provide the necessary integration points such as the primeui tailwind plugin or a spin-off UI library called Volt based on unstyled PrimeVue. Tailwind CSS and PrimeVue can be used together via two main approaches to choose from. First approach is using Tailwind CSS around the styled PrimeVue components as demonstrated in the samples section below. The second alternative approach takes the integration a step further by replacing the default design token based styled mode with the unstyled mode and utilizing Tailwind CSS within the component internals via pass-through feature. A spin-off library from the PrimeTek UI ecosystem has been created based on this advanced integration called VOLT .

## Plugin

The tailwindcss-primeui is an official plugin by PrimeTek to provide first class integration between a Prime UI library like PrimeVue and Tailwind CSS. It is designed to work both in styled and unstyled modes. In styled mode, for instance the semantic colors such as primary and surfaces are provided as Tailwind utilities e.g. bg-primary , text-surface-500 , text-muted-color . If you haven't already done so, start by integrating Tailwind into your project. Detailed steps for this process can be found in the Tailwind documentation . After successfully installing Tailwind, proceed with the installation of the PrimeUI plugin. This single npm package comes with two libraries: the CSS version is compatible with Tailwind v4, while the JS version is designed for Tailwind v3. Tailwind v4 In the CSS file that contains the tailwindcss import, add the tailwindcss-primeui import as well. Tailwind v3 Use the plugins option in your Tailwind config file to configure the plugin.

## Volt UI

Volt is ideal for developers who prefer customizing component styles using Tailwind CSS rather than the default design token-based styling. If you do not have this use case and prefer the default styled mode for PrimeVue, while using Tailwind CSS only for other requirements such as layout, you can proceed to the next section. Volt is an open source UI component library implemented with the Unstyled PrimeVue components and Tailwind CSS. Volt follows the Code Ownership model where the components live in your application code base as your own UI library rather than imported from node_modules as a 3rd party. Main benefit of this approach is full control over styling and ease of customization. Internally a Volt component wraps its PrimeVue counterpart, removes the default design token based theming and applies Tailwind utility classes via the pass through attributes feature. Volt components are designed to be customized with Tailwind CSS and do not require separate updates. They serve as wrappers around PrimeVue components, so maintenance is handled simply by updating the PrimeVue version.

